	DATA DICTIONARY - TIDY AVERAGES DATASET
	===================================

First 2 (Two) Variable Names
----------------------------

Subject : A numeric value that serves as a unique identifier for the
subjects who performed the activities. Its range is from 1 to 30. 

Activity : A string value, ranging over six possibilities (WALKING,
WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) 
indicating the type of activity performed by the subject when the
following measurements were taken.

Overview Description: Remaining Variable Names
----------------------------------------------

The remaining variable names can be understood on the basis of a
common understanding that we first detail that explains their naming
convention. 

This dataset includes averages of certain measurements extracted from

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 

that represents data collected from accelerometers in the Samsung
Galaxy S smartphone. 

All the variable names are an average of data values for the
particular combination of subject and activity appearing in the first
two columns of that row. Each of the names is of the form AVG:w, where
w is another string. The AVG: appearing in the beginning of the names
refers to this averaging (by subject and activity combination). The
measurements being averaged can be understood on the basis of the
following description explaining w, the string that follows AVG: in
any variable name.

The measurements come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw
signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't'
to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they
were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass
Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove
noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body
and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ)
using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of
0.3 Hz.    

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were
derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and
tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional
signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag,
tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag).   

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these
signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ,
fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to
indicate frequency domain signals).   

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector
for each pattern:   
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

tBodyAcc-XYZ
tGravityAcc-XYZ
tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
tBodyGyro-XYZ
tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
tBodyAccMag
tGravityAccMag
tBodyAccJerkMag
tBodyGyroMag
tBodyGyroJerkMag
fBodyAcc-XYZ
fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
fBodyGyro-XYZ
fBodyAccMag
fBodyAccJerkMag
fBodyGyroMag
fBodyGyroJerkMag

Finally, the variable names include a -mean() or -std() appearing
either at the end or before a -X, -Y, -Z. These refer to the mean
value and standard deviation, respectively, of the corresponding
measurements as detailed above. 

Detailed List of Remaining 66 (Sixty Six) Variable Names
-----------------------------------------------------

Avg:tBodyAcc-mean()-X
Avg:tBodyAcc-mean()-Y
Avg:tBodyAcc-mean()-Z
Avg:tGravityAcc-mean()-X
Avg:tGravityAcc-mean()-Y
Avg:tGravityAcc-mean()-Z
Avg:tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X
Avg:tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y
Avg:tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z
Avg:tBodyGyro-mean()-X
Avg:tBodyGyro-mean()-Y
Avg:tBodyGyro-mean()-Z
Avg:tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X
Avg:tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y
Avg:tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z
Avg:tBodyAccMag-mean()
Avg:tGravityAccMag-mean()
Avg:tBodyAccJerkMag-mean()
Avg:tBodyGyroMag-mean()
Avg:tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()
Avg:fBodyAcc-mean()-X
Avg:fBodyAcc-mean()-Y
Avg:fBodyAcc-mean()-Z
Avg:fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X
Avg:fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y
Avg:fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z
Avg:fBodyGyro-mean()-X
Avg:fBodyGyro-mean()-Y
Avg:fBodyGyro-mean()-Z
Avg:fBodyAccMag-mean()
Avg:fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean()
Avg:fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()
Avg:fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()
Avg:tBodyAcc-std()-X
Avg:tBodyAcc-std()-Y
Avg:tBodyAcc-std()-Z
Avg:tGravityAcc-std()-X
Avg:tGravityAcc-std()-Y
Avg:tGravityAcc-std()-Z
Avg:tBodyAccJerk-std()-X
Avg:tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y
Avg:tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z
Avg:tBodyGyro-std()-X
Avg:tBodyGyro-std()-Y
Avg:tBodyGyro-std()-Z
Avg:tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X
Avg:tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y
Avg:tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z
Avg:tBodyAccMag-std()
Avg:tGravityAccMag-std()
Avg:tBodyAccJerkMag-std()
Avg:tBodyGyroMag-std()
Avg:tBodyGyroJerkMag-std()
Avg:fBodyAcc-std()-X
Avg:fBodyAcc-std()-Y
Avg:fBodyAcc-std()-Z
Avg:fBodyAccJerk-std()-X
Avg:fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y
Avg:fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z
Avg:fBodyGyro-std()-X
Avg:fBodyGyro-std()-Y
Avg:fBodyGyro-std()-Z
Avg:fBodyAccMag-std()
Avg:fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()
Avg:fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()
Avg:fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std()

